### Note:
These "official" summaries below are modified to a target length of 4-8 sentences, intending to mirror the length of an abstract. This thesis was extremely uneven in content distribution, with chapter 3 comprising well over 60% of the thesis. As such, an "unoffical" summary can be found in this folder which compensates for chapter length and attempts to summarize by section instead. 

# Chapter 1
With the automotive industry rapidly pushing towards fully autonomous vehicles, an AVRP would be very useful for carrying out research on autonomous vehicles. A multitude of succesful AVRPs have been deployed with varying degrees of success utilizing a variety of sensors, driving mechanisms and computer hardware. In 2007, multiple teams competed in the DARPA autonomous driving challenges, with CMU, the winning team, using HDR cameras, LIDAR and radar on competition vehicle. Virginia Tech also competed, and used LIDAR and cameras for perception with the vehicle completing the 60-mile course in about 6 hours. Faculty at Virginia tech were interviewed to get a better understanding of what features researches would like to see in an AVRP, which is the foundation of this thesis. The goal of this thesis is to provide operational specifications for the development of a level 4 capable AVRP. 

# Chapter 2
This chapter starts by laying out many of the interdisciplinary design needs for an AVRP which include vehicle communication, perception, and vehicle adapting to different environments. Vehicle communication will require a radio transmitter and transceiver, path following and object recognition will require cameras and sufficient processing hardware, ACC and CACC will require the use of radar and communication. Additionally, monitoring and collecting data will require access to the AVRP communication buses. The basic autonomous platform will require sensing hardware, GPS/INS, IMU, computers for perception processing, computers for route planning and obstacle avoidance, data storage, DBW system for vehicle input, and communication bus(es). A research platform will use a two-layer setup, hooks to connect additional computers, hooks to access communication buses, universal mounting racks and appropriate power outlets. 

# Chapter 3
This chapter outlines the design of the AVRP and contains significantly more content that previous chapters. Drive by wire (DBW) is essential for an AVRP as it allows the AVRP to be fully functional in autonomous mode without any external manual controlling. For navigation, the highest accuracies can be achieved by using a combination of GPS and dead reckoning. Sensory is a critical portion of an AVRP, and a variety of sensors including cameras, radar, LIDAR and acoustic sensors enable a wide range of sensory capabilities. From a systems perspective, the AVRP needs to be a two-layer system (admin, user) such that custom software may mounted and unmounted on the user side without comprimising the integrity of the AVRP. An electric or hybrid vehicle is preferable such that there is sufficient electrical power to run the base AVRP and all attached hardware. Finally, universal mounting racks on the front, top and rear of the vehicle are essential to allow researchers to easily install and uninstall hardware. 

# Chapter 4
he base sensor suite allows for the AVRP to perform the following capabilities without any user added sensors or hardware: text, sign, and signal recognition, ACC, blind spot detection, lane following, path following, obstacle detection, obstacle avoidance, emergency braking and stop-and-go-traffic. AVRPs require validation, and can be broken up into three pieces: software, hardware and overall system validation. Additional validation should include point-to-point testing, unprivileged admin access and running simulations. 

# Chapter 5
An AVRP must be develop on a need-driven basis which can be ascertained by interviewing potential future users. The base specs for an AVRP include a multilayer user system, ports to connect additional computers and devices, separate communication buses, universal mounting racks, an adequate sensor suite and an appropriate power source. The operational specifications laid out in this thesis are not limited simply to automobiles, which demonstrates the scalability and applicability of the AVRP. As this thesis is primarily focused on hardware, future work on software specifications is desirable. For hardware, the testing various models and brands of sensors should be carried out. 
