# NOTE: 
This is the "raw", "unoffical" summary that is proportional to chapter length. This particular thesis had a very uneven distribution of content amongst chapters, with some being only 1 page and others being 20+ pages.

### Introduction
1.1 With the automotive industry rapidly pushing towards fully autonomous vehicles, an AVRP would be very useful for carrying out research on autonomous vehicles. Faculty at Virginia tech were interviewed to get a better understanding of what features researches would like to see in an AVRP. 
1.2 Current Autonomous vehicles use an array of hardware that allow them to operate with the level of autonomy they were designed for. In 2007, multiple teams competed in the DARPA autonomous driving challenges, with CMU, the winning team, using HDR cameras, LIDAR and radar on competition vehicle. Virginia Tech also competed, and used LIDAR and cameras for perception with the vehicle completing the 60-mile course in about 6 hours. Among other attempts: Audi tried to implement a platform based entirely around perception, an ATV was used for arctic exploration, and a Brazilian platform used DGPS for positioning and LIDAR with cameras for obstacle detection. A VisLab team tried to make an autonomous vehicle look “normal” by integrating cameras, laser scanners and radar subtly into the vehicle’s architecture. Around 2009/2010, GUSS was built for the purpose of supporting infantry in the field.

This section focused on various attempts at autonomous vehicle implementations, with a focus on the sensors, the driving mechanism and the computer hardware. 
1.3 The goal of this thesis is to provide operational specifications for the development of a level 4 capable AVRP. Chapter 2 details systems specifications to develop an AVRP, chapter 3 dives into the hardware and perception of an AVRP and the supporting technology needed, Chapter 4 reviews the base vehicle research capabilities and contains a testing plan ideas for an AVRP, with Chapter 5 being the concluding Chapter. 


###Specifications
2.1 This section starts by laying out many of the interdisciplinary design needs for an AVRP which include vehicle communication, perception, and vehicle adapting to different environments. Vehicle communication will require a radio transmitter and transceiver, path following and object recognition will require cameras and sufficient processing hardware, ACC and CACC will require the use of radar and communication. Additionally, monitoring and collecting data will require access to the AVRP communication buses. The basic autonomous platform will require sensing hardware, GPS/INS, IMU, computers for perception processing, computers for route planning and obstacle avoidance, data storage, DBW system for vehicle input, and communication bus(es). A research platform will use a two-layer setup, hooks to connect additional computers, hooks to access communication buses, universal mounting racks and appropriate power outlets. 

### Design
3.0

3.1 Drive by wire (DBW) is essential for an AVRP as it allows the AVRP to be fully functional in autonomous mode without any external manual controlling. Important DBW design specifications requires but is not limited to: steering torque, resolution of stressing throttle and brake, controller and motor accuracy, electronic slew rate, maximum speeds and accelerations, steering torque to disengage autonomy. 
3.2 Navigation is key for an AVRP. Dead reckoning estimates the current position based on knowledge of speed and distance traveled which can be collected through an INS, which is a computer that has gyroscopes and accelerometers. Dead reckoning suffers from integration drift, which is the accumulation of error in position calculations. A GPS can be a more accurate solution, with an accuracy of as small as 3 meters. A hybrid system with an INS can be even more accurate, with NovAtel’s SPAN-CPT system providing an accuracy of about 1.2 meters. The GPS antenna should be on the roof, with the INS/IMU mooted rigidly inside the vehicle. 
3.3 Sensing Sensing over a large range is critical to autonomous vehicles, and is achievable with a variety and combination of passive and active sensors. LIDAR works by generating a 3D point cloud of the surrounding environment by emitting light and sensing the reflected light. More laser returns allow for a more detailed point cloud to be generated, and return intensity can help with object classification. LIDAR can bee susceptible to weather conditions. LIDAR is very useful when mounted on the roof, however this creates a blind spot for objects less than a few meters from the vehicle. Radar works by emitting radio waves and can compute distance and velocity of an object. Radar can have a larger detection range than LIDAR, and is typically segmented into multiple ranges: short, mediums and long. Radar is superior to LIDAR in poor weather conditions. Radar can typically be mounted on all sides of a vehicle. Ultrasonic sensors work by emitting acoustic waves and are typically used for shorter range tasks and are susceptible to debris buildup and air properties. They are typically mounted on the front and rear bumpers in multiples. Cameras, with their ability to capture color and light contrast can provide more capabilities than what LIDAR, radar and ultrasonic provide. Import camera specifications include resolution, F-stop, frames per second, saturation capacity and dynamic range. Cameras are susceptible to poor lighting and weather conditions, but this can be offset with HDR cameras. Wheel speed and steering angle sensors are also required and can be measured. 
3.4 The user will use the use layer for interfacing with the AVRP, including collecting data through sensors, processing and determining needed comments to be executed by the DBW system. The admin layer will only have limited access by the user to protect the integrity and base functionality of the AVRP. The admin layer will have the capacity to withhold or alter commands made by the user, such as altering an unsafe command into a safe one or stopping the vehicle completely. An emergency stop system will also be required to be put in place, which can be either wireless or manual. An onboard computer capable of logging information and powerful enough to process sensor data and vehicle commands is also required. Custom platforms should be benchmarked against existing platforms, such as the 2013 Deeva platform or Nvidia’s Drive PX 2. SSDs are superior to HDDs in an environment with a moving vehicle. 
3.5 The base suite will include: DBW system, 1 NovAtel SPAN-CPT, 1 Velodyne HDL–64E LIDAR, 1 Smartmicro Type 29 Antenna (long range radar), 6 Smartmicro Type 31 Antenna (short range radar), 8 Ultrasonic sensors (Neobotix USBoard) and 5 FLIR Blackfly GigE Vision cameras. The minimum capabilities of the suite include include text-sign-signal recognition, ACC, blind spot detection, lane detection and following, path following, obstacle detect, obstacle avoidance, emergency braking and stop-and-go traffic. The base communication buses consist of a high speed CAN bus and gigabit ethernet. 
3.6 Using an electric vehicle will allow for extra power not normally available from an alternator, but it will need to be stepped down in voltage. A 100% overhead is estimate, bringing the total AVRP power to 2.9 KW. 
3.7 Universal mounting racks on the front and rear of the vehicle can be slightly more difficult than roof top racks. Load considerations should be made when mounting items to the frame of the vehicle, and a visual inspection can be done to determine locations to bolt the brackets to. When installing mounting rocks, natural vibration of the racks will need to be considered for sensor mounting. 


### Verification
The base sensor suite allows for the AVRP to perform the following capabilities without any user added sensors or hardware: text, sign, and signal recognition, ACC, blind spot detection, lane following, path following, obstacle detection, obstacle avoidance, emergency braking and stop-and-go-traffic. AVRPs require validation, and can be broken up into three pieces: software, hardware and overall system validation. Additional validation should include point-to-point testing, unprivileged admin access and running simulations. 


### Conclusion
An AVRP must be develop on a need-driven basis which can be ascertained by interviewing potential future users. The base specs for an AVRP include a multilayer user system, ports to connect additional computers and devices, separate communication buses, universal mounting racks, an adequate sensor suite and an appropriate power source. The operational specifications laid out in this thesis are not limited simply to automobiles, which demonstrates the scalability and applicability of the AVRP. As this thesis is primarily focused on hardware, future work on software specifications is desirable. For hardware, the testing various models and brands of sensors should be carried out. 

