## Ch. 1 Introduction

It will be nice to be able to prove that a program is bug free in critical systems. This thesis presents a theorem-based language for verification based upon Isabelle/UTP, including additional features such as algebraic laws of programming and forward condition generator.

## Ch. 2 Background

This chapter covers the background work and topics that USIMPL builds upon, including formal methods, Isabelle, UTP, Isabelle/UTP, and the Simpl language as well as some other related works. Formal methods can be generalized as the usage of logical inference rules to derive well-formed conclusions in sound mathematical frameworksapplied to the domains of hardware and software development. Isabelle is desinged as a successor to the HOL series of ITPS. Types, functions, syntax translations, proofs, locales of Isabelle are briefly introduced. Unifying Theories of Programming (UTP) was written to provide denotational semantics for a generalized nondeterministic imperative programming language expressed in a common setting. Simpl is essentially an extension of the IMP language presented by Winskel. Some of the other design decisions made when implementing UTP in Isabelle and some other related works are also covered. 

## Ch. 3 Extending Isabelle/UTP 

This chapter introduces how the author extends the basic Isabelle/UTP system. The author extends the systems by adding program state features, new algebraic laws and scoping rules. The author also proposes a VCG that can generate the Strongest Postcondition (SP) and introduces the Hoare rules by which the VCs are generated.


## Ch. 4 Case Studies 

In this chapter, the author covers some real world applications of USIMPL VCG. He used USIMPL VCG to prove the correctness of insertion sort, which is a relatively simple sorting algorithm, and quicksort, which is more complex.



## Ch. 5 Conclusions

USIMPL's contributions include extension to the Isabelle/UTP implementation of Hoare and He’s UTP in the proof assistant Isabelle with features of the Simpl language as well as well as developement of additional algebraic laws for Isabelle/UTP language constructs. There are several lessons learned. A helper-library is needed for beyond auxilary lemmas. For loops and other control flow structures with complex behavior, development of invariants and assertions to continue the flow of proving can be difficult and tedious. To connect USIMPL to wilder world, more automated methods is required. Another possible approach is to directly integrate pre-/postconditions and invariants into the language with which programs are written. Future work will include scoping support, recursive function calls, a heap-style memory model and more testing features.
